Jacob Sawyer
MIS 407



When it comes to programming languages that are used in modern business there are two main ones that immediately come to my mind. They to me really represent the differences from the old school to the new school. Python and Java are two pillars of modern programming. Java with its long history as a powerful yet agile language, interdependent of the brand focused hardware and python the extremely simple and clean yet powerful language that seems to be the new rage in town. 
	My education in computer science started with Java. It was the first language I learned in my Com S 207 class. I think Java was a good starting language for me because of its static typing. The fact that in Java you have to define that data structure of each variable before you initiate it was a great help in keeping things organized. Python takes a little more hands off approach to this with its dynamic naming putting the job of keeping track of “is that variable an int or double” into the hands of the developer. In the modern business world I think both strategies have their place. For people that maybe aren’t as well organized or just don’t have that much skill in the programming field a static typing style would work best for them. If the person has a little more experience or simply just needs to write code that gets things done quickly than python would have the upper hand.
	While neither of the languages is extremely hard to write or understand this is where python really excels. Python is a lot closer to English than Java and is much quicker to read as well as write. The only place where Java may have the upper hand in this area to me would be in that it uses brackets compared to the indention style of python. Brackets make things easier to organize and keep track of. It is nice to be able to jump into some code with lots of moving parts and quickly be able to tell which if statement a variable call is under. Python’s quick syntax works fine and with a good code editor the indention is not that big of a hassle but when something isn’t working and you have to go through a couple hundred lines of code to fix an indention error the world of brackets starts looking pretty nice.
	When people talk about java one of the main things that pops up is its portability. Java runs in its own virtual machine the JVM. This allows Java to run almost anywhere such as on a windows machine, a Mac machine, the android phone OS, as well as the Internet in the form of applets or servlets. This is a major advantage as we move into the future and everyone has more and more devices, many of them running different operating systems.
	Python is a compiled language. This means that the language most be compiled or transformed into something that the native machine can understand. This means that it may be harder or take more time for something written in python to get running on certain machines though many frameworks for python are making this easier and easier. For example Django is allowing python to play more of an active role in the world of the web instead of making it solely a backend server language. The JVM also has its downsides. Running things in a VM means that they will run much slower than something running natively. This gives python the advantage of speed, which in today’s world is again a very important feature to have. 
	When it comes to a programming language for a team or individual to use in the modern business world python and java are both fantastic options. It is not so much a battle for which are the best language but more of which language is best for the job. If you need something that can run on a vast number of different machines or want a language that is very well organized then Java might be the choice for you. If your project calls for something quick to write as well as quick to run and you are willing to put in a little more time with format, organization, and variable naming then python might be the tool you are looking for. In the end it is the craftsman that makes the good, the tools just help him get there. 
	
